Adds Dynamic functionality to Extended Choice parameter plugin.

[[DynamicExtendedChoiceParameterplugin-Functionalityusage]]
== Functionality usage

This plugin extends the functionality of
https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Extended+Choice+Parameter+plugin[Extended
Choice Parameter plugin] and adds dynamic loading to it. This plugin
supports two features;

* *Automatic populate dropdown options for branch/tag/trunk names* :
While selecting source code location you need to enter source code
branch/tag/trunk name accordingly now Jenkins will automatically
populate all those thing based on your selection. Below are the
screenshots to configure this plugin for this feature +
[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/svn.jpg[image]# +
[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/svn1.JPG[image]# +
To setup this plugin with svn you need to enter the basic details as we
did in extended-choice-parameter-plugin after that enter "Bind with
field" field name so that based on your selection output content of this
field get changed and tick "IS SVN" check-box and enter "SVN URL" with
which it will work , "SVN Username" and "SVN Password" to access this
repository. Rest of the option are not needed for this functionality. +
Property file in my case i have used "svn_structure.txt" which contains
"key=trunk,tags,branches" based on user selection plugin goes into that
location and list the names of the list under that selection. +
(*PS: "Bind with field" currently works with string parameter and
Extended-choice-parameter-plugin. So please select on of them.)
* *Populate Host name based on your role* : Based on your role in
Jenkins it will show you only those assigned host name list and type
against your role. Below are the screenshot to configure this plugin for
this feature +
[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/Capture.JPG[image]# +
[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/Capture1.JPG[image]#

To setup this plugin with this functionality you need to enter the basic
details as we did in extended-choice-parameter-plugin after that enter
"Bind with field" field name so that based on your selection output
content of this field get changed.Rest of the option are not needed for
this functionality.

Property file in my case i have used "env_type.txt" which contains
"Host_Name=QA,DEV,SIT,Staging,Prod" based on your selection plugin will
look into the same dir under which i have placed "env_type.txt" in my
case it is
"/var/jenkins/projects/PRD-PHIX/bin/abs-build-scripts/properties" to get
user selected input.txt i.e if user select QA then it will look for
QA.txt under same dir with same property key that you have mentioned for
file "env_type.txt" in my case it is "Host_Name";

*To make this plugin to work with your role in Jenkins* you need to tick
"Role Based Filter" in configuration page as shown above. This plugin
will look for roles in global roles and project roles based on your
configuration.

* *If you specify the "Project Name" in configuration page* then this
plugin will look for property file content + "_" + "Project Name" means
if you select QA then roles become "QA_Project Name" whatever project
name you have specify in the field like if project name is ABC then role
become QA_ABC only those users who has this role will see this option in
jenkins job else only select option will be visible at their end.
* *If you don't specify the "Project Name" in configuration page* then
plugin will look for "QA" role and other roles respectively only.

(PS: Property file has server names like QA.txt will have only QA server
list, DEV.txt will have only DEV server list.)

(*PS: "Bind with field" currently works with string parameter and
Extended-choice-parameter-plugin. So please select on of them.)
