[.conf-macro .output-inline]#Jenkins Plugin that
transforms http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TestComplete[TestComplete]
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MHTML[MHT] test reports from
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TestComplete[TestComplete] version 11 and
grater into xUnit format so they can be integrated with Jenkins' JUnit
features.#

[.aui-icon .aui-icon-small .aui-iconfont-info .confluence-information-macro-icon]#
#

The
 plugin https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/TestComplete+xUnit+Plugin[TestComplete
xUnit Plugin] from https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~fmiguelez[Unknown
User (fmiguelez)] can still be used with newer TestComplete/TestExecuter
versions if the TC / TE executable is called with the option
*/ExportLogToXMLAlso* included in the command line. This plugin works
without this option for TC / TE 11 and grater.

[[TestComplete11and12xUnitPlugin-Howitworks]]
== How it works

It works like
the https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/TestComplete+xUnit+Plugin[TestComplete
xUnit Plugin] from https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/~fmiguelez[Unknown
User (fmiguelez)]. 

As a reminder here the content again.

It has been developed as a
https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/xUnit+Plugin[xUnit
Plugin] extension. To use it select the build step "Process xUnit test
result report" or "Publish xUnit test result report" post-build action.
In either case click on "Add" button and select "TestComplete-11.x-12.x"
from drop down list.

<TODO add job configuration>

In the "TestComplete-11x-12.x Pattern" text box introduce the location
of the http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MHTML[MHT] report files as generated
by TestComplete/TestExecute.

Some considerations:

* Tests in TestComplete can be organized in a tree of test items. JUnit
reports (xUnit) however can only be organized in two levels (testsuites
and testcases contained within). TestComplete's keyword and script tests
are then mapped to test cases and test suite is mapped as top-level test
item containing keyword or script tests at any level.
* For each resulting test case the classname is obtained as the name of
the second-level ancestor test item (if any) containing the original
keyworkd or script test. 

To illustrate these considerations consider following example
TestComplete report that belongs to a test suite that contains two top
TestComplete projects.

<TODO add test log from IE>

This is the resulting xUnit report. The xUnit test suite name matches
TestComplete's TestSuite name ("TestProjectSuite"). Test cases are named
after keyword tests (e.g. "KT3") and script tests (e.g. "Unit\ST3"). The
class names correspond to the names of the TestComplete projects in
suite (second level test items in report).

<TODO Add picture jenkins>

This plugin has been successfully tested on Windows.

[[TestComplete11and12xUnitPlugin-ChangeLog]]
== Change Log

[[TestComplete11and12xUnitPlugin-Version1.1(16September,2017)]]
=== Version 1.1 (16 September, 2017)

* First version.

 

 

 

 

 

 
