[[AdvancedInstallerMsiBuilderPlugin-Overview]]
== Overview

Using this plugin you can easily integrate Advanced Installer into your
Jenkins build system. The output package can be any of the supported
packaging types supported by Advanced Installer, i.e. MSI, EXE, MSP,
MSM, APPV, etc. 

Advanced Installer is a Windows Installer authoring tool that can be
used to create installers for Windows, for desktop and web applications
(running on Windows servers). The
http://www.advancedinstaller.com/user-guide/command-line.html[Advanced
Installer command line interface]  works with any automated build
system. Also, it features a Visual Studio extension, so you can create
an Advanced Installer project and build your installer directly from
Visual Studio IDE. The VS extension also integrates automatically with
MSBuild, without requiring additional configuration.

*Advanced Installer website*:
 http://www.advancedinstaller.com/[http://www.advancedinstaller.com]

[.aui-icon .aui-icon-small .aui-iconfont-info .confluence-information-macro-icon]#
#

Please note that this plugin only works on Windows-driven Jenkins
installations.

[[AdvancedInstallerMsiBuilderPlugin-Prerequisites]]
== Prerequisites

. This plugin requires https://www.advancedinstaller.com/[Advanced
Installer]. 
. JRE/JDK 1.7 or newer is also required for this plugin to work
correctly. Older versions of the JDK have not been tested and might not
work as expected.

[[AdvancedInstallerMsiBuilderPlugin-ToolConfiguration]]
== Tool Configuration

Before you can use it you need to configure an__ Advanced
Installer installation.  __Here you have two options:

. Specify the root location where Advanced Installer already exists.
. Automatically install a new version
from https://www.advancedinstaller.com/version-history.html[advancedinstaller.com].
You will need a  valid license key for registration, otherwise builds
will fails or the generated setup packages will contains trial
notification messages. If you are using the free edition of Advanced
Installer, i.e. create only projects of type "Simple", a license is not
required.

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper .image-center-wrapper .confluence-embedded-manual-size]#image:docs/images/tool-config.png[image,height=250]#

Job Configuration

Job configuration is easy, just enter the relative path to your AIP file
and set the desired options. For details about the different options,
please refer to the
http://www.advancedinstaller.com/user-guide/introduction.html[Advanced
Installer user guide].

 

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper .image-center-wrapper .confluence-embedded-manual-size]#image:docs/images/build-config.png[image,height=400]#

[[AdvancedInstallerMsiBuilderPlugin-Changelog]]
== *Changelog*

The latest changes are documented
on *https://github.com/jenkinsci/advanced-installer-msi-builder-plugin/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md[GitHub
Changelog]*.

[[AdvancedInstallerMsiBuilderPlugin-TechnicalSupport]]
== Technical Support

Further information about Advanced Installer Plugin, including feature
requests or bug reports, you may contact us
on http://www.advancedinstaller.com/forums/.

 
