[.conf-macro .output-inline]#Allows users to launch infrastructure
usingÂ https://terraform.io/[Terraform] as a build wrapper.#

[[TerraformPlugin-Configuration]]
== Configuration

[[TerraformPlugin-SystemConfiguration]]
=== System Configuration

This plugin provides an auto-installer to install the Terraform binary
from http://bintray.com/[bintray.com]. To install, select the version
you would like for your platform.

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/terraform-install.png[image]#

[[TerraformPlugin-JobConfiguration]]
=== Job Configuration

This plugin works as a build wrapper and can be invoked by selecting
Terraform under the Build Environment section of your job configuration.

A workspace directory *terraform-plugin* will be created, this is where
temporary files are created and automatically deleted after runs.

This directory also contains the generated tfstate file
*terraform-plugin.tfstate*.

This generated tfstate file is not deleted and is always passed to
Terraform using
*-state=workspace/terraform-plugin/terraform-plugin.tfstate* as an extra
safety measure so as to not use any other tfstate file you might have in
a workspace.

The first step is to decide how you would like to pass your
configurations to Terraform, there are 2 options:

[[TerraformPlugin-Option1:ConfigurationText]]
==== Option 1: Configuration Text

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/terraform-configuration-text.png[image]#

This option allows you to copy what would be in a resource file (.tf)
into a textarea. This text will then be written to a temporary file
(workspace/terraform-plugin/terraform-TEMP.tf) and parsed by Terraform.

[[TerraformPlugin-Option2:ConfigurationPath]]
==== Option 2: Configuration Path

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/terraform-configuration-path.png[image]#

This option provides a directory path (relative to your workspace) to
enter where your configuration files (.tf) exist. If no path is given,
it defaults to the workspace path.

[[TerraformPlugin-Updatemodules(Optional)]]
==== Update modules (Optional)

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/update_modules.png[image]#

Terraform will run the get command by default, use this option to run
Terraform get with the -update flag.

[[TerraformPlugin-Resourcevariables(Optional)]]
==== Resource variables (Optional)

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/terraform-resource-variables.png[image]#

If you are using resource files that reference external variables, set
these variables here.

These variables will be written to a temporary file
(workspace/terraform-plugin/variables-TEMP.tfvars) and will be passed to
Terraform using the *--var-file=* option.

[[TerraformPlugin-Advanced]]
==== Advanced

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper]#image:docs/images/terraform-destroy.png[image]#

If you want to destroy the architecture you have created once the build
is complete, click the advanced button and check Destroy On Build
Completion.

This will call Terraform with the *destroy --force* option which will
look at the generated terraform-plugin.tfstate file
(workspace/terraform-plugin/terraform-plugin.tfstate) and destroy
everything under Terraform supervision.

[[TerraformPlugin-Changelog]]
== Changelog

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.9(November7,2016)]]
=== Release 1.0.9 (November 7, 2016)

* Fix for pipeline tool auto-install

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.8(November3,2016)]]
=== Release 1.0.8 (November 3, 2016)

* Adding apply as an optional step

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.6(July29,2016)]]
=== Release 1.0.6 (July 29, 2016)

* Bugfix for modules

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.5(July17,2016)]]
=== Release 1.0.5 (July 17, 2016)

* Added terraform get command by default, with optional -update flag

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.4(March19,2016)]]
=== Release 1.0.4 (March 19, 2016)

* Redundant debug output log line removed

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.3(March19,2016)]]
=== Release 1.0.3 (March 19, 2016)

* No changes from 1.0.2

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.2(March19,2016)]]
=== Release 1.0.2 (March 19, 2016)

* Support for environment variable substitution when using inline
configuration and optional variable file

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.1(Dec04,2015)]]
=== Release 1.0.1 (Dec 04, 2015)

* Release snafu, No changes from 1.0.0

[[TerraformPlugin-Release1.0.0(Dec04,2015)]]
=== Release 1.0.0 (Dec 04, 2015)

* Initial release
