This plugin adds an ability to perform automatic code scan by Checkmarx
server and shows results summary and trend in Jenkins interface.

[[CheckmarxCxSASTPlugin-Summary]]
== Summary

Checkmarx CxSAST is a unique source code analysis solution that provides
tools for identifying, tracking, and repairing technical and logical
flaws in the source code, such as security vulnerabilities, compliance
issues, and business logic problems.

Without needing to build or compile a software project's source code,
CxSAST builds a logical graph of the code's elements and flows. CxSAST
then queries this internal code graph. CxSAST comes with an extensive
list of hundreds of preconfigured queries for known security
vulnerabilities for each programming language. Using the CxSAST Auditor
tool, you can configure your own additional queries for security, QA,
and business logic purposes.

CxSAST provides scan results either as static reports, or in an
interactive interface that enables tracking runtime behavior per
vulnerability through the code, and provides tools and guidelines for
remediation. Results can be customized to eliminate false positives, and
various types of workflow metadata can be added to each result instance.
These metadata are maintained through subsequent scans, as long as the
instance continues to be found.

The input to CxSAST's scanning and analysis is the source code, not
binaries, so no building or compiling is required, and no libraries need
to be available. The code doesn't even need to be able to compile and
link properly. Consequently, CxSAST can run scans and generate security
reports at any given point in a software project's development life
cycle.

The CxSAST Jenkins plugin enables:

* Automatic code scan on CxSAST server, upon each build triggered by
Jenkins
* Ability to run Open Source Analysis (CxOSA) from within Jenkins
* Graphical Scan results summary and trends in Jenkins interface
* Links from Jenkins to CxSAST and CxOSA detailed scan results and to
PDF report

After setting up the plugin, you can
https://checkmarx.atlassian.net/wiki/display/KC/Configuring+a+Scan+Action[configure]
any Jenkins job with a build step action to activate a CxSAST scan. When
a Job scan (build) is activated, Jenkins sends the job's source code to
CxSAST, where it is scanned according to the parameters specified in the
build step action. The scan results are stored in the CxSAST project
specified in the action, and
https://checkmarx.atlassian.net/wiki/display/KC/Viewing+Scan+Results+in+Jenkins[displayed]
in the Jenkins job.

CxOSA for Jenkins can be run in cases where open source components are
used as part of the development effort. When a CxOSA (build) is
activated, Jenkins sends the open source fingerprints to the CxOSA
service (note that no customer details or used libraries are passed to
the CxOSA service). Using these open source fingerprints, the CxOSA
service maps the open source libraries, identifies the vulnerabilities,
analyses license risk and compliance, builds the inventory and detects
outdated libraries. Comprehensive and summarized reports are generated
within the Jenkins interface.

For release notes see:

* https://checkmarx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/KC/pages/9142278/CxSAST+Release+Notes[CxSAST
Release Notes]

For more information see:

* https://checkmarx.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/KC/pages/11337790/CxSAST+Jenkins+Plugin[CxSAST
Jenkins Plugin]

 +
