This plugin manages exclusion between jobs.

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Aboutthisplugin]]
== About this plugin

This plugin is inspired by the Port-Allocator plugin.

The purpose of this plugin is to manage conflicts between jobs.

The Exclusion plugin allows you to assign resource names to jobs on
Jenkins.[._5yl5]#The plugin will ensure that jobs sharing a same
resource will not be executed at the same time#. The resource name is a
semaphore.

With the second part of the plugin you can, in an administration panel,
see the list of resources configured in each job, see when a resource is
allocated and, thanks to the release button, you can release a resource
currently used.

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Configuration]]
== Configuration

Firstly you have to activate the plugin by checking the box “Add
resource to manage exclusion”. It allows you to add resources. A
resource is represented by a name (String). You can add as much
resources as needed.

Secondly you have to determine the critical zone, delimited by a start
(Critical Block Start) and an end (Critical Block End). All build steps
included in a critical zone will be managed by Exclusion plugin.

 +
[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper .image-center-wrapper]#image:docs/images/firstscreen.JPG[image]#

If you don’t add a start block the plugin won’t do anything. If you
don’t add an end block, resources will be release after the last build
step.

[[Exclusion-Plugin-AdministrationPanel]]
== Administration Panel

[.confluence-embedded-file-wrapper .image-center-wrapper]#image:docs/images/screen4.JPG[image]#

When you are on the home page of Jenkins, you can access the
Administration Panel.

In this page, you can see all resources configured. The status (Action)
of a job is set to "Currently Used" when the job is running (if he has a
resource configured). It means that the resource is currently allocated
-> the other jobs using the same resource can’t be run at this moment.

You can release a resource by selecting a resource name in the combo box
(that displays only the resources currently used) and clicking on
“Release resource button”.

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Aboutme]]
== About me

Owner & maintainer of the project: GitHub:
https://github.com/anthonyroux[anthonyroux] & Twitter:
https://twitter.com/AnthonyRoux_[AnthonyRoux_]

[[Exclusion-Plugin-ChangeLog]]
== Change Log

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Version0.12(Apr19,2016)]]
=== Version 0.12 (Apr 19, 2016)

*_Contribution of_* *_https://github.com/kool79[Oleksandr Kulychok]_*

* Fixed Administration panel 

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Version0.11(Oct25,2015)]]
=== Version 0.11 (Oct 25, 2015)

*_Contribution of_* *_https://github.com/emanuelez[Emanuel Zattin]_*

* Add support for the Workflow plugin.

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Version0.10(Jan25,2014)]]
=== Version 0.10 (Jan 25, 2014)

* Fixed issue
#https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-14953[14953] and issue
#https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-15884[15884]

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Version0.9(Nov18,2013)]]
=== Version 0.9 (Nov 18, 2013)

* Fixed a security vulnerability that allows non-administrator users
from releasing resources that are currently held (SECURITY-53)

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Version0.8(Nov8,2012)]]
=== Version 0.8 (Nov 8, 2012)

* https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-14953[JENKINS-14953]
Exclusion plugin sometimes reports a resource as locked when it is not.
Jobs hang as a result.

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Version0.7(July7,2012)]]
=== Version 0.7 (July 7, 2012)

* https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/browse/JENKINS-12250[JENKINS-12250]
Critical block can not be added into conditional step

[[Exclusion-Plugin-Version0.6(Jun19,2011)]]
=== Version 0.6 (Jun 19, 2011)
