 +

 [.conf-macro .output-inline]####

[cols="",options="header",]
|===
|Plugin Information
|View NeuVector Vulnerability Scanner
https://plugins.jenkins.io/neuvector-vulnerability-scanner[on the plugin
site] for more information.
|===

[.aui-icon .aui-icon-small .aui-iconfont-info .confluence-information-macro-icon]##

Older versions of this plugin may not be safe to use. Please review the
following warnings before using an older version:

* https://jenkins.io/security/advisory/2019-09-25/#SECURITY-1504[Credentials
stored in plain text]

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Description]]
== Description

Scan registries and images for vulnerabilities using this plug-in with
the NeuVector scanner.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Requirements]]
== Requirements

* If you use this plugin to scan local images (before pushing to any
registries), you will have to install the NeuVector Scanner on the node
where the images exist.

* If you use this plugin to scan registry images (after pushing to any
registries), the NeuVector Scanner can be installed on any node in the
network with connectivity between the registry, NeuVector Scanner, and
Jenkins.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-SetuptheconfigurationinJenkins]]
== Setup the configuration in Jenkins

{empty}1. After installing the plugin, find the ‘NeuVector Vulnerability
Scanner’ section in the global configuration page (Jenkins ‘Configure
System’). Enter values for the NeuVector Controller IP, port, username,
and password. You may click the ‘Test Connection’ button to validate the
values. It will show ‘Connection Success’ or an error message.

The timeout minutes value will terminate the build step within the time
entered. The default value of 0 means no timeout will occur.

Click the ‘Add Registry’ to enter values for the registry you will use
in your project. If you will be only scanning local images, you don’t
need to add a registry here.

{empty}2. In your project, choose the 'NeuVector Vulnerability Scanner'
plugin from the drop down menu in the 'Add build step'. Choose Local or
a registry name which is the nickname you entered in global config.
Enter the repository and image tag name to be scanned. You may choose
Jenkins default environment variables for the repository or tag. e.g.
$JOB_NAME, $BUILD_TAG, $BUILD_NUMBER. Enter the values for the number of
high or medium, and for any name of the vulnerabilities present to fail
the build.

After the build is finished, a NeuVector report will be generated. It
will show the scan details and errors if any.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Changelog:]]
=== Changelog:

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Version1.0(June1,2018)]]
==== Version 1.0 (June 1, 2018)

* First release.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Version1.1(July19,2018)]]
==== Version 1.1 (July 19, 2018)

* Add no vulnerabilities found case.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Version1.2(July20,2018)]]
==== Version 1.2 (July 20, 2018)

* Update for no scan entity case.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Version1.3(September24,2018)]]
==== Version 1.3 (September 24, 2018)

* Update long poll status code.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Version1.4(April16,2019)]]
==== Version 1.4 (April 16, 2019)

* Support multiple build steps in one Jenkins build.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Version1.5(July1,2019)]]
==== Version 1.5 (July 1, 2019)

* Support layer scan.

[[NeuVectorVulnerabilityScannerPlugin-Version1.6(September21,2019)]]
==== Version 1.6 (September 21, 2019)

* Use secret for password.
